Loan Calculator
===================

This project provides a loan calculator.  The calculator has been run
on Linux/Unix systems, including Cygwin.

The loan calculator was written in C.  To run the calculator, you will
need to compile one file.  A makefile is provided, so you should be able
to run 'make'.

Once compiled, run:

  $ ./loancalc


The types of loans it supports are demonstrated by the main menu:

 (N) Non-Amortized         ::  Pay Interest Only - Big Balloon Due at Term
 (P) Partially Amortized   ::  Pay Some of the Principle - Balloon Due at Term
 (A) Fully Amortized       ::  Pay All of the Principle and Interest
 (E) Fully Amortized +     ::  Make Extra Payments Toward the Principle


For the purposes of this project:

 (N) "Nonamortized loan" means a loan in which none of the
 principal balance shall be payable prior to the maturity of the loan.

 (P) "Partially amortized loan" means a loan in which some but not
 all of the principal balance, together with accrued interest, shall
 be payable prior to the maturity of the loan.

 (A) "Fully amortized loan" means a loan in which, at inception of
 the loan, the entire principal balance, together with accrued
 interest, shall be payable with the scheduled term of the loan in
 substantially equal installments (excepting the last payment, which
 may be smaller than a regular scheduled payment).

 (E) "Fully Amortized +" is a "fully amortized loan" where additional
 funds are paid each month to further reduce the principle.


TODO:  Additional types of loans.

 "Open end line of credit" means a loan plan in which the
 association reasonably contemplates repeated transactions; the
 association may impose interest  from time to time on the unpaid
 principal of the loan plan, and the amount of credit that may be
 extended to the borrower during the term of the loan plan (up to any
 limit set by the association) is generally made available to the
 extent that any outstanding principal balance is repaid.
 
 "Reverse annuity mortgage" means an instrument which provides
 for periodic payments to be made to a homeowner based on accumulated
 equity.  The payments are made monthly directly by the association,
 or are made through the purchase  of an annuity from an insurance
 company.  The loan becomes due on a specified date after disbursement
 of the entire principal amount of the loan or when a specified event
 occurs, such as sale of the property or death of the borrower.  The
 interest rate on this instrument may be fixed, or may be adjusted
 periodically as provided by this section.

